Francis Isip
June 12, 2026
HyperionDev




1. Conduct research to understand how HTTP applications preserve the state of an application across multiple request-response cycles, especially concerning user authentication and session management
   1. Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is a stateless protocol, meaning that every request-response cycle is independent. Therefore, web servers experience a form of "amnesia" where they can't remember a user and their data context from one page click to the next. To keep the application state over multiple cycles, web applications use sessions and cookies. When a user logs in with their username and password, the server authenticates the credentials and creates a secure session record in its backend database in order to track information on the user. Instead of re-sending those credentials every single time the client visits the web application, the server places a small text file called a cookie onto the client's browser with a unique session key. For every subsequent request, the browser automatically attaches this cookie to the HTTP headers so the server can see the key, look up the active session, and maintain a smooth, continuous state for the user.
2. Investigate and document the procedures for performing Django database migrations to a server-based relational database like MariaDB.
   1. Although SQLite is good for local development because it is lightweight and file-based, high-performance applications need a strong server-based RDBMS such as PostgreSQL or MySQL. So moving to a server-based architecture is critical to handling the huge number of users and the security of the enterprise because a server-based architecture with thousands of connections and access permissions needs to have a background system for background services needed to handle it. The migration of a Django application to a production database is fast thanks to Django's database-agnostic ORM engine. To do so, a developer can just change the configuration dictionary for DATABASES in the Django application's settings.py file and replace the local file path with the connection parameters of the server, such as ENGINE, NAME, USER, PASSWORD, HOST, and PORT. Since Django separates schema definitions from the database technology, python manage.py migrate automatically transforms the existing Python migration plans into the database architecture of the server by simply writing the SQL code to the database and applying Python to the application.